Allow for assigning of default search engine based on country


Fixes #14647
Submitter Checklist:

 Submitted a ticket for my issue if one did not already exist.
 Used Github auto-closing keywords in the commit message.
 Added/updated tests for this change (for new code or code which already has tests).
 Ran git rebase -i to squash commits (if needed).
 Tagged reviewers and labelled the pull request as needed.
 Request a security/privacy review as needed. (Ask a Brave employee to help if you cannot access this document.)

Test Plan:
(perform steps on Windows, macOS, and Linux)
Changing the country
macOS
Settings > Language & Region

Windows

Open up settings (on Windows 10, click the notifications icon in bottom right and then pick All settings)
Pick "Time & Language"
Pick "Region & Language"


You'll also need to go into Control Panel > Region and set the Format

Linux


Push the Windows key and search for region (or language)


Pick Language Support



Install other languages as needed


Pick the appropriate language (all choices should show country)



reboot for changes to take effect


Setup

Check out source code; do a fresh rebuild
Either Delete or move out of the way your brave-development profile directory
Uncomment these two lines: https://github.com/bsclifton/browser-laptop/blob/222c500977f77a6de63eaa587c4cc11f5d820505/js/constants/config.js#L48-L49

Test default (new install - country doesn't match any config entry)

Delete your brave-development profile directory
Set your country to USA
Launch browser (npm run watch / npm start)
Verify default search is Google
Open a new PRIVATE tab and ensure DuckDuckGo option DOES show on private tab. Try a search and verify it uses the proper engine
Open a new PRIVATE TOR tab and ensure DuckDuckGo DOES show (is mentioned). Try a search and verify it uses the proper engine
Go to about:preferences#search
Verify your default search engine is Google
Verify the "Private tab" options show up on the page
Exit Brave
Set your country back to original setting

Test country matches a config entry (new install)

Delete your brave-development profile directory
Set your country as France
Re-launch browser
Verify default search is GitHub
Open a new PRIVATE tab and ensure DuckDuckGo option DOES NOT show on private tab. Try a search and verify it uses the proper engine
Open a new PRIVATE TOR tab and ensure DuckDuckGo DOES NOT show (is NOT mentioned). Try a search and verify it uses the proper engine
Go to about:preferences#search
Verify your default search engine is GitHub
Verify the "Private tab" options DO NOT show up on the page
Change your default to Google
Verify that "Private tab" options DO show up
Exit Brave
Set your country back to original setting

Ensure default not changed for existing profile

Delete your brave-development profile directory
Set your country as USA
Launch browser
Verify default search is Google
Exit Brave
Set your country as France
Re-launch brave
Ensure default search engine is still Google (no change made)
Exit Brave
Set your country back to original setting

Reviewer Checklist:

 Request a security/privacy review as needed if one was not already requested.

Tests

 Adequate test coverage exists to prevent regressions
 Tests should be independent and work correctly when run individually or as a suite ref
 New files have MPL2 license header

