Using a private tab with Tor crashes Brave and gives error that it cannot connect after restarting Brave


It looks like there is a similar issue related to Tor private tabs (#14517). However, in this issue, Tor does actually connects. I'm not finding any other issues or anything in the community like this.
Description
After starting Brave then opening a new private tab with Tor it shows that the browser has connected to the network. When entering and address or search into the address bar, Brave crashes. Once you restart Brave it gives the error that it is unable to connect to the Tor network. This is because when Brave crashed the Tor connection remained open.
Steps to Reproduce

Open Brave browser and wait for it to finish loading.
Right click the plus icon to open a new tab and select "New Private Tab with Tor".
After seeing "Successfully connected to the Tor Network!" in the address bar, type in search terms or an address. After hitting enter, Brave crashes.
Re-open Brave browser by clicking the desktop icon
Repeat steps 2 and 3. Here is when Brave sits for a bit trying to connect to Tor. Then returns the error dialog: Unable to connect to the Tor network.

Reproduces how often:
Can reproduce 98% of the time.
Brave Version
about:brave info:
Brave: 0.24.0
V8: 6.9.427.23
rev: f657f15
Muon: 8.1.6
OS Release: 6.1.7601
Update Channel: Release
OS Architecture: x64
OS Platform: Microsoft Windows
Node.js: 7.9.0
Brave Sync: v1.4.2
libchromiumcontent: 69.0.3497.100
Additional Information
When Brave crashes, the Tor process is not killed (on rare occasions it is). So the connection stays open. That is when I receive the message saying its unable to connect to the Tor network. However, if the Tor process is killed, it will connect to the network but still crashes almost every time.
Also, it seems that this only happens when using the private tab with Tor is the first thing I do after starting Brave. If I use another tab to go to a web page, then do the steps provided above, it works fine.
