cmd/go: [modules + integration] go mod discover, discover a set of unpacked modules within a directory


This report is part of a series focused at making Go modules work in integrator workflows. It’s being filled at the request of @mdempsky in golang-dev. It is informed both by the results of this golang-dev discussion, and by trying to make things work with Go module tooling as it exists today (experiment¹).
Please do not dismiss it or mark it as duplicate of another vaguely similar issue without making sure you’ve read and understood the golang-dev discussion. A lot of work went into identifying problems points precisely.
Needed feature
Go needs an official go mod discover command that processes a directory of unpacked Go code and identifies the valid Go modules within this directory.
Constrains

the output should be a machine-readable list of:

module path
module version
filesystem path


the command should warn if different filesystem paths declare the same module and version.
the feature should also be exposed as a function in the official Go API, returning a go object (map, list, struct…)
discovery should not consult a cache or the internet, just the provided directory
the directory may include info files next to the corresponding mod files, or not

Motivation

existing software baselines have been created in unpacked GOPATH/vendor mode,
go allows creating go.mod files in other places than the root of the project
go allows nested modules
go allows module names that do not match the project url (and mandates them for versions >1)
niceties like testdata or vendor mean some go.mod files are not considered as module descriptor but just data, so a basic find won’t work
future language evolutions will probably add more twists to the concept of “valid module”

All of this make module discovery a lot of work that should be handled by common tooling.
Detailed Context
The current Go module design and implementation targets small Go projects. Those projects consume raw unchanged third party projects, and rely blindly on the QA done by those other projects. Their only needs are to download those projects, check they’ve not been tampered with (via notaries),  regularly check for updates.
Small project code supply chain:
third party code
        ↓
direct or proxied
download,
without changes
(upstream integrity checks required)
        ↓
use in project without checks
(blind third party trust)

Big integration projects, however, can not afford this direct pipeline.
Big integration projects can be:

Linux distributions
huge software projects like Kubernetes (as noted by @thockin)

There is too much third party code in play. Every member of the team can not be expected to master all the third party parts. All the third party projects may not be up to the project QA standards. Expecting all of them to deal timely with issues all the time (and thus being able to use them unchanged) is unrealistic. Continuous internet downloads make CI/CD prohibitively expensive, unreliable and unreproducible.
Therefore any big integration project will have to give up on direct internet third party code use. It will work from a baseline of third party code. This baseline will receive small last-mile fixes to deal with the problems encountered while integrating a large mass of third-party code, and mask the lag of getting all those fixes accepted by the original third party projects. This baseline will be broken up in individual components to allow different teams to take ownership the curation of different parts of the third party codebase. And, because all this is a huge amount of work, the organisation managing the project will want to share it with its other projects.
Big project code supply chain:
third party code
        ↓
direct or proxied
download
without changes
(upstream integrity checks required)
        ↓
curating 
– checking,
– fixing, 
– removing unneeded/broken/dead parts
(upstream integrity checks voided)
        ↓
curated baseline
        ↓  ↓  ↓  ↓  ↓  ↓  ↓  ↓ ↓
use in project A … use in project N
(no other third party code or internet download checks permitted)

The aim of this report series is to make Go module tooling integration-friendly, helping big integration projects to constitute and manage their baselines, and consume the result in all their sub-projects.
For historical reasons baselines have been created in GOPATH/vendor mode so far. But, there is no reason for this mode to persist. All the code management wins produced by modules in the direct download case, are also desirable in the integration/baseline case.
Therefore, there is a tooling need to convert the existing GOPATH/vendor baselines of third party code into  baselines of Go modules.
¹ The experimental code is probably horrible. That's not the point. Most of its functions are generic and should have been provided by generic Go tooling in the first place.
