cmd/go: [modules + integration] go mod foreign, list the foreign content of a module


This report is part of a series focused at making Go modules work in integrator workflows. It’s being filled at the request of @mdempsky in golang-dev. It is informed both by the results of this golang-dev discussion, and by trying to make things work with Go module tooling as it exists today (experiment¹).
Please do not dismiss it or mark it as duplicate of another vaguely similar issue without making sure you’ve read and understood the golang-dev discussion. A lot of work went into identifying problems points precisely.
Needed feature
Go needs an official go mod foreign command that lists the foreign content of a packed or unpacked Go module.
Constrains

foreign content is anything the Go compiler has no use for in the Go module

everything except the Go module source files


while CompiledGoFiles and SysoFiles can be used by the compiler, they are opaque blobs that can not be checked by code analysis tools, and present a risk of hostile code injection; they should be listed too (with warnings)
the Go project should decide if XTestGoFiles are part of the module code or something foreign that happens to be located in the module tree
the command should take a mod module descriptor filsesystem path as input.
the command needs to operate both on:

unpacked module trees (with go.mod located at the tree root) and
packed modules (with the module descriptor filename matching the zip payload filename)


the output should be machine-readable
the feature should also be exposed as a function in the official Go API, returning a go object (map, list, struct…)

Motivation
Existing Go projects have been created before Go module existed, when the Go world was a vast GOPATH soup directly accessible on the filesystem, without clear delimitations.
Converting Go projects to modules by plunking a mod file in the project root, and zipping everything below this root, works as a first approximation. It does not help projects and integrators to triage things that made sense when everything was a single filesystem, and make no sense now that they’re segregated in a module zip file.
While the Go project should not be responsible nor care about anything, except Go source code located within Go modules, it should help projects, by listing other module files, so they can be managed by tools separate from the Go compiler.
Detailed Context
The current Go module design and implementation targets small Go projects. Those projects consume raw unchanged third party projects, and rely blindly on the QA done by those other projects. Their only needs are to download those projects, check they’ve not been tampered with (via notaries),  regularly check for updates.
Small project code supply chain:
third party code
        ↓
direct or proxied
download,
without changes
(upstream integrity checks required)
        ↓
use in project without checks
(blind third party trust)

Big integration projects, however, can not afford this direct pipeline.
Big integration projects can be:

Linux distributions
huge software projects like Kubernetes (as noted by @thockin)

There is too much third party code in play. Every member of the team can not be expected to master all the third party parts. All the third party projects may not be up to the project QA standards. Expecting all of them to deal timely with issues all the time (and thus being able to use them unchanged) is unrealistic. Continuous internet downloads make CI/CD prohibitively expensive, unreliable and unreproducible.
Therefore any big integration project will have to give up on direct internet third party code use. It will work from a baseline of third party code. This baseline will receive small last-mile fixes to deal with the problems encountered while integrating a large mass of third-party code, and mask the lag of getting all those fixes accepted by the original third party projects. This baseline will be broken up in individual components to allow different teams to take ownership the curation of different parts of the third party codebase. And, because all this is a huge amount of work, the organisation managing the project will want to share it with its other projects.
Big project code supply chain:
third party code
        ↓
direct or proxied
download
without changes
(upstream integrity checks required)
        ↓
curating 
– checking,
– fixing, 
– removing unneeded/broken/dead parts
(upstream integrity checks voided)
        ↓
curated baseline
        ↓  ↓  ↓  ↓  ↓  ↓  ↓  ↓ ↓
use in project A … use in project N
(no other third party code or internet download checks permitted)

The aim of this report series is to make Go module tooling integration-friendly, helping big integration projects to constitute and manage their baselines, and consume the result in all their sub-projects.
For historical reasons baselines have been created in GOPATH/vendor mode so far. But, there is no reason for this mode to persist. All the code management wins produced by modules in the direct download case, are also desirable in the integration/baseline case.
Therefore, there is a tooling need to convert the existing GOPATH/vendor baselines of third party code into  baselines of Go modules.
¹ The experimental code is probably horrible. That's not the point. Most of its functions are generic and should have been provided by generic Go tooling in the first place.
