Securing default configuration of kops-provisioned clusters - IAM and api tokens


Hi all,
as me and my colleagues started to evaluate Kubernetes (with success, largely thanks to kops) we have found critical security issues related to default configuration of kops-provisioned clusters.

Access to IAM role credentials (with broad permissions) available from every Pod, mentioned already in #379 #376 #528 #1100 #363
API token mounted in every Pod (as far as I understand it gives ability to manage kubernetes from within every running Pod)

Me and my team would like to address those issues, preferably in a way that could make it into kops. This is why I would like to ask for suggestion how you would like to get it solved. I understand that making kops-provisioned clusters secure enough to run untrusted code is a big task.
My initial take on that

Document current behavior. I believe it is crucial to make it clear to users and early adopters about current state and progress being made in that matter. I wish to start working on that once I get full understanding of current setup.
Block access to IAM by default, at least from Pods run in 'default' namespace (or every namespace other than kube-system)
Do not mount api token by default
Further lower the amount of permissions that IAM roles have

I'd like to get your input how we can achieve 2) and 3)
Kube2iam seems to be the default go-to for people wishing to manage IAM roles for Pods. Could we install it by default?
Or should we just block 169.254.169.254 by default? If so, how to achieve that in a configurable (ability to turn that off when editing cluster) and clean way? Could this be done by protokube itself ? Once I get directions from you I can start working on that.
I'd also like to get better understanding of why kubernetes mounts default api token inside every Pod and how we can disable it.
Regarding 4) - I believe we should start by scoping EC2 permissions to resources tagged with KubernetesCluster=$clustername , I'll play with it in the next few days.
Looking forward for your input.
