Complete evaluation of potential bug bounty vendors


This issue is an update on the process for vendor evaluation and selection for a Kubernetes bug bounty program. This program is a work in progress. The bug bounty is not currently active. If you currently have a bug to submit, follow instructions at https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/issues-security/security/.
Kubernetes Bug Bounty Program vendor evaluation
Goal
To create a vulnerability rewards program (“bug bounty”) for Kubernetes. This is to help:

Attract security researchers to get more eyes on the code, shake out security bugs, and put money behind K8s security guarantees
Simplify K8s’ security team’s security bug triage and response
Allow all contributors to participate in improving K8s’ security, while remaining independent of any single K8s contributor

This should NOT replace or interfere with existing vendor-specific bug bounty programs for their deployments of Kubernetes, e.g., if a bug is in Google’s specific deployment of Kubernetes in Google Kubernetes Engine, it should be reported to/ routed to the Google Vulnerability Rewards Program.
Scope
An initial scope for the bug bounty is defined by the Kubernetes Product Security Team in community/contributors/guide/bug-bounty.md.
Process

An initial discussion with the CNCF in April 2018 suggested there was interest in pursuing a bug bounty program for Kubernetes, funded by the CNCF.
After initial identification of vendors and preliminary discussions, the vendors were invited to have an initial meeting on Oct 19 2018, to understand the scope of the proposal.
They were invited to submit proposals, and any follow-up questions, e.g., on the existing processes of the Kubernetes Product Security Team (PST) by Nov 1 2018.
Vendors presented their proposals to the PST for evaluation on Nov 20 2018.
As a follow-up to these proposals, the PST decided to evaluate the vendor platforms directly. They were given trial accounts and tested these out the week of Nov 26 2018.
As a result of these evaluations, the Kubernetes PST recommended a preferred vendor.

Eligible vendors
The following vendors were approached for proposals:

Bugcrowd
HackerOne

Both submitted and presented their proposals.
Evaluation
Criteria were not directly shared with the vendors, but included:

Hosting: e.g., Can this be hosted on an agnostic platform, like Kubernetes.io? How many researchers are in the vendor’s existing pool?
Relevant experience: e.g., Does the vendor have any experience with open source bug bounty programs? Does the vendor have any experience with Kubernetes?
Program definition: e.g., Can the vendor help define the scope of the bug bounty program?
Triage: e.g., How quickly will priority reports be validated and triaged? Can reports be easily routed to other organizations if they do not refer to Kubernetes core?
Integration with existing vulnerability response process: e.g., Can there be security team members from different organizations on call? Does the vendor platform integrate directly with Github, which is part of the PST’s current process?
Disclosure policy: e.g., Does the vendor disclose reports by default?
Rewards: e.g., Can the vendor use a custom rewards structure? Can swag rewards be provided?
Price: e.g., What is the annual cost to run the platform?

Recommendation
After significant evaluation, the Kubernetes Product Security Team (PST) would be content with either vendor, HackerOne or Bugcrowd, hosting a Kubernetes vulnerability rewards program.
HackerOne is preferred due to: its tighter integration with Github, simple vulnerability report disclosure, automated response flows, automated CVSS scoring, and simpler fulfillment of swag rewards.
