[Security] Bump bootstrap from 3.3.7 to 3.4.0


Bumps bootstrap from 3.3.7 to 3.4.0. This update includes security fixes.

Vulnerabilities fixed
Sourced from The Sonatype OSS Index.

CWE-79: Improper Neutralization of Input During Web Page Generation ('Cross-site Scripting')
The software does not neutralize or incorrectly neutralizes user-controllable input before it is placed in output that is used as a web page that is served to other users.
Affected versions: <=3.3.7



Release notes
Sourced from bootstrap's releases.

v3.4.0

New: Added a .row-no-gutters class.
New: Added docs searching via Algolia.
Fixed: Resolved an XSS issue in Alert, Carousel, Collapse, Dropdown, Modal, and Tab components. See https://snyk.io/vuln/npm:bootstrap:20160627 for details.
Fixed: Added padding to .navbar-fixed-* on modal open
Fixed: Removed the double border on <abbr> elements.
Removed Gist creation in web-based Customizer since anonymous gists were disabled long ago by GitHub.
Removed drag and drop support from Customizer since it didn't work anymore.
Added a dropdown to the docs nav for newer and previous versions.
Update the docs to use a new baseurl, /docs/3.4/, to version the v3.x documentation like we do with v4.
Reorganized the v3 docs CSS to use Less.
Switched to BrowserStack for tests.
Updated links to always use https and fix broken URLs.
Replaced ZeroClipboard with clipboard.js




Commits

4c547f2 Dist.
0f1c6b0 Move the whole autoprefixer config to configBridge.json.
9332f3c Add polyfills for older browsers.
dd71b40 docs: Concat the IE files with the rest.
4a5c7f2 Update devDependencies, gems and lots of cleanup/build fixes.
7a2cdfb Center skippy.
3b82587 Restore cursor: help for abbr.
bf69f1f Backport the abbr fix from the updated normalize.css.
dd23bb5 Backport search.js changes from v4-dev.
9edba61 search input: hide box-shadow.
Additional commits viewable in compare view



Maintainer changes
This version was pushed to npm by xhmikosr, a new releaser for bootstrap since your current version.



Dependabot will resolve any conflicts with this PR as long as you don't alter it yourself. You can also trigger a rebase manually by commenting @dependabot rebase.


Dependabot commands and options

You can trigger Dependabot actions by commenting on this PR:

@dependabot rebase will rebase this PR
@dependabot recreate will recreate this PR, overwriting any edits that have been made to it
@dependabot merge will merge this PR after your CI passes on it
@dependabot cancel merge will cancel a previously requested merge
@dependabot reopen will reopen this PR if it is closed
@dependabot ignore this [patch|minor|major] version will close this PR and stop Dependabot creating any more for this minor/major version (unless you reopen the PR or upgrade to it yourself)
@dependabot ignore this dependency will close this PR and stop Dependabot creating any more for this dependency (unless you reopen the PR or upgrade to it yourself)
@dependabot use these labels will set the current labels as the default for future PRs for this repo and language
@dependabot use these reviewers will set the current reviewers as the default for future PRs for this repo and language
@dependabot use these assignees will set the current assignees as the default for future PRs for this repo and language
@dependabot use this milestone will set the current milestone as the default for future PRs for this repo and language
@dependabot badge me will comment on this PR with code to add a "Dependabot enabled" badge to your readme

Additionally, you can set the following in your Dependabot dashboard:

Update frequency (including time of day and day of week)
Automerge options (never/patch/minor, and dev/runtime dependencies)
Pull request limits (per update run and/or open at any time)
Out-of-range updates (receive only lockfile updates, if desired)
Security updates (receive only security updates, if desired)

Finally, you can contact us by mentioning @dependabot.

