Bump django-allauth from 0.38.0 to 0.39.1


Bumps django-allauth from 0.38.0 to 0.39.1.

Changelog
Sourced from django-allauth's changelog.

0.39.1 (2019-02-28)
Note worthy changes

The linkedin_oauth2 provider now gracefully deals with old V1 data that might still be present in SocialAccount.extra_data.

0.39.0 (2019-02-26)
Note worthy changes

New providers: JupyterHub (OAuth2), Steam (OpenID)
Refactor translations: Portuguese (Portugal).
Add testing for Django 2.2 (no code changes required)

Backwards incompatible changes

linkedin_oauth2: As the LinkedIn V1 API is deprecated, the user info endpoint has been moved over to use the API V2. The format of the user extra_data is different and the profile picture is absent by default.




Commits

817b264 fix(linkedin_oauth2): Deal with V1 data in to_str
639e443 chore: Preparing release 0.39.0
a40d6d9 docs: Added Microsoft Graph API to import list in docs
929da11 chore(i18n): Fixed typo and grammar bugs in persian translation
8987bde docs: Greek locale typ-o
5f90cc3 refactor(linkedin_oauth2): Bump to API v2
1271e67 docs: Add Patreon to import list
f5fa4e9 docs: Added three third party resources
8828380 fix(line): updated LINE api version
0ae1f11 fix: correct the PR template
Additional commits viewable in compare view




Dependabot will resolve any conflicts with this PR as long as you don't alter it yourself. You can also trigger a rebase manually by commenting @dependabot rebase.

Note: This repo was added to Dependabot recently, so you'll receive a maximum of 5 PRs for your first few update runs. Once an update run creates fewer than 5 PRs we'll remove that limit.
You can always request more updates by clicking Bump now in your Dependabot dashboard.

Dependabot commands and options

You can trigger Dependabot actions by commenting on this PR:

@dependabot rebase will rebase this PR
@dependabot recreate will recreate this PR, overwriting any edits that have been made to it
@dependabot merge will merge this PR after your CI passes on it
@dependabot squash and merge will squash and merge this PR after your CI passes on it
@dependabot cancel merge will cancel a previously requested merge and block automerging
@dependabot reopen will reopen this PR if it is closed
@dependabot ignore this [patch|minor|major] version will close this PR and stop Dependabot creating any more for this minor/major version (unless you reopen the PR or upgrade to it yourself)
@dependabot ignore this dependency will close this PR and stop Dependabot creating any more for this dependency (unless you reopen the PR or upgrade to it yourself)
@dependabot use these labels will set the current labels as the default for future PRs for this repo and language
@dependabot use these reviewers will set the current reviewers as the default for future PRs for this repo and language
@dependabot use these assignees will set the current assignees as the default for future PRs for this repo and language
@dependabot use this milestone will set the current milestone as the default for future PRs for this repo and language
@dependabot badge me will comment on this PR with code to add a "Dependabot enabled" badge to your readme

Additionally, you can set the following in your Dependabot dashboard:

Update frequency (including time of day and day of week)
Automerge options (never/patch/minor, and dev/runtime dependencies)
Pull request limits (per update run and/or open at any time)
Out-of-range updates (receive only lockfile updates, if desired)
Security updates (receive only security updates, if desired)

Finally, you can contact us by mentioning @dependabot.

