[Security] Bump flask from 0.12.2 to 1.0.2


Bumps flask from 0.12.2 to 1.0.2. This update includes security fixes.

Vulnerabilities fixed
Sourced from The GitHub Security Advisory Database.

Moderate severity vulnerability that affects flask
The Pallets Project flask version Before 0.12.3 contains a CWE-20: Improper Input Validation vulnerability in flask that can result in Large amount of memory usage possibly leading to denial of service. This attack appear to be exploitable via Attacker provides JSON data in incorrect encoding. This vulnerability appears to have been fixed in 0.12.3.
Affected versions: < 0.12.3



Release notes
Sourced from flask's releases.

1.0.2
This release includes bug fixes and minor changes since 1.0.1. See the changelog for details.
Install or Upgrade
Install from PyPI with pip:
pip install -U Flask

1.0.1
This release includes bug fixes and minor changes since 1.0. See the changelog for details.
Install or Upgrade
Install from PyPI with pip:
pip install -U Flask

1.0
The Pallets team is pleased to release Flask 1.0. [Read the announcement on our blog.](https://www.palletsprojects.com/blog/flask-1-0-released/
There are over a year's worth of changes in this release. Many features have been improved or changed. Read the changelog to understand how your project's code will be affected.
JSON Security Fix
Flask previously decoded incoming JSON bytes using the content type of the request. Although JSON should only be encoded as UTF-8, Flask was more lenient. However, Python includes non-text related encodings that could result in unexpected memory use by a request.
Flask will now detect the encoding of incoming JSON data as one of the supported UTF encodings, and will not allow arbitrary encodings from the request.
Install or Upgrade
Install from PyPI with pip:
pip install -U Flask

0.12.4
This is a repackage of 0.12.3 to fix an issue with how the package was built.
Upgrade
 ... (truncated)



Commits

dfd3619 Bump version number to 1.0.2
4dc3ba5 release 1.0.2
ad09134 Merge pull request #2752 from greyli/patch-9
b4e0926 Check whether exist registered routes
a6a6810 Merge pull request #2748 from pallets/fix-bp-route
b21b4d1 add more merge cases
f7a3bdc Fix blueprint route for ""
3fd7abe fix project urls
5a75da5 add missing port to localhost URL
9b6845f Merge branch '0.12-maintenance' into 1.0-maintenance
Additional commits viewable in compare view




Dependabot will resolve any conflicts with this PR as long as you don't alter it yourself. You can also trigger a rebase manually by commenting @dependabot rebase.

Note: This repo was added to Dependabot recently, so you'll receive a maximum of 5 PRs for your first few update runs. Once an update run creates fewer than 5 PRs we'll remove that limit.
You can always request more updates by clicking Bump now in your Dependabot dashboard.

Dependabot commands and options

You can trigger Dependabot actions by commenting on this PR:

@dependabot rebase will rebase this PR
@dependabot recreate will recreate this PR, overwriting any edits that have been made to it
@dependabot merge will merge this PR after your CI passes on it
@dependabot cancel merge will cancel a previously requested merge
@dependabot reopen will reopen this PR if it is closed
@dependabot ignore this [patch|minor|major] version will close this PR and stop Dependabot creating any more for this minor/major version (unless you reopen the PR or upgrade to it yourself)
@dependabot ignore this dependency will close this PR and stop Dependabot creating any more for this dependency (unless you reopen the PR or upgrade to it yourself)
@dependabot use these labels will set the current labels as the default for future PRs for this repo and language
@dependabot use these reviewers will set the current reviewers as the default for future PRs for this repo and language
@dependabot use these assignees will set the current assignees as the default for future PRs for this repo and language
@dependabot use this milestone will set the current milestone as the default for future PRs for this repo and language
@dependabot badge me will comment on this PR with code to add a "Dependabot enabled" badge to your readme

Additionally, you can set the following in your Dependabot dashboard:

Update frequency (including time of day and day of week)
Automerge options (never/patch/minor, and dev/runtime dependencies)
Pull request limits (per update run and/or open at any time)
Out-of-range updates (receive only lockfile updates, if desired)
Security updates (receive only security updates, if desired)

Finally, you can contact us by mentioning @dependabot.

