Security Checklist


Risk Management

 The service must have performed a Rapid Risk Assessment and have a Risk Record bug
 The service must be registered via a New Service issue

Infrastructure

 Access and application logs must be archived for a minimum of 90 days
 Use Modern or Intermediate TLS
 Set HSTS to 31536000 (1 year)

strict-transport-security: max-age=31536000
 If the service is not hosted under services.mozilla.com, it must be manually added to Firefox's preloaded pins. This only applies to production services, not short-lived experiments.


If service has an admin panels, it must:

 only be available behind Mozilla VPN (which provides MFA)
 require Auth0 authentication



Development

 Ensure your code repository is configured and located appropriately:

 Application built internally should be hosted in trusted GitHub organizations (mozilla, mozilla-services, mozilla-bteam, mozilla-conduit, mozilla-mobile, taskcluster). Sometimes we build and deploy applications we don't fully control. In those cases, the Dockerfile that builds the application container should be hosted in its own repository in a trusted organization.
 Secure your repository by implementing Mozilla's GitHub security standard.


 Sign all release tags, and ideally commits as well

Developers should configure git to sign all tags and upload their PGP fingerprint to https://login.mozilla.com
The signature verification will eventually become a requirement to shipping a release to staging & prod: the tag being deployed in the pipeline must have a matching tag in git signed by a project owner. This control is designed to reduce the risk of a 3rd party GitHub integration from compromising our source code.


 enable security scanning of 3rd-party libraries and dependencies

For node.js, use npm audit with audit-filter to review and handle exceptions (see example in speech-proxy)
For Python, enable pyup security updates:

Add a pyup config to your repo (example config: https://github.com/mozilla-services/antenna/blob/master/.pyup.yml)
Enable branch protection for master and other development branches. Make sure the approved-mozilla-pyup-configuration team CANNOT push to those branches.
From the "add a team" dropdown for your repo /settings page

Add the "Approved Mozilla PyUp Configuration" team for your github org (e.g. for mozilla and mozilla-services)
Grant it write permission so it can make pull requests


notify secops@mozilla.com to enable the integration in pyup




 Keep 3rd-party libraries up to date (in addition to the security updates)

For NodeJS applications, use dependabot, renovate, or GreenKeeper
For Python, use pip list --outdated or requires.io or pyup outdated checks
For Rust, use cargo update and cargo upgrade when changing versions


 Integrate static code analysis in CI, and avoid merging code with issues

Javascript applications should use ESLint with the Mozilla ruleset
Python applications should use Bandit
Go applications should use the Go Meta Linter
Use whitelisting mechanisms in these tools to deal with false positives



Dual Sign Off

 Services that push data to Firefox clients must require a dual sign off on every change, implemented in their admin panels

This mechanism must be reviewed and approved by the Firefox Operations Security team before being enabled in production



Logging

 Publish detailed logs in mozlog format (APP-MOZLOG)

Business logic must be logged with app specific codes (see FxA)
Access control failures must be logged at WARN level



Web Applications

 Must have a CSP with

 a report-uri pointing to the service's own /__cspreport__ endpoint
 web API responses should return default-src 'none'; frame-ancestors 'none'; base-uri 'none'; report-uri /__cspreport__ to disallowing all content rendering, framing, and report violations
 if default-src is not none, frame-src, and object-src should be none or only allow specific origins
 no use of unsafe-inline or unsafe-eval in script-src, style-src, and img-src


 Third-party javascript must be pinned to specific versions using Subresource Integrity (SRI)
 Web APIs must set a non-HTML content-type on all responses, including 300s, 400s and 500s
 Set the Secure and HTTPOnly flags on Cookies, and use sensible Expiration
 Make sure your application gets an A+ on the Mozilla Observatory
 Verify your application doesn't have any failures on the Security Baseline.

Contact secops@ or ping 'psiinon' on github to document exceptions to the baseline, mark csrf exempt forms, etc.


 Web APIs should export an OpenAPI (Swagger) to facilitate automated vulnerability tests

Security Features

 Authentication of end-users should be via FxA. Authentication of Mozillians should be via Auth0/SSO. Any exceptions must be approved by the security team.
 Session Management should be via existing and well regarded frameworks. In all cases you should contact the security team for a design and implementation review

Store session keys server side (typically in a db) so that they can be revoked immediately.
Session keys must be changed on login to prevent session fixation attacks.
Session cookies must have HttpOnly and Secure flags set and the SameSite attribute set to 'strict' or 'lax' (which allows external regular links to login).
For more information about potential pitfalls see the OWASP Session Management Cheat Sheet


 Form that change state should use anti CSRF tokens. Anti CSRF tokens can be dropped for internal sites using SameSite session cookies where we are sure all users will be on Firefox 60+. Forms that do not change state (e.g. search forms) should use the 'data-no-csrf' form attribute.
 Access Control should be via existing and well regarded frameworks. If you really do need to roll your own then contact the security team for a design and implementation review.
 If you are building a core Firefox service, consider adding it to the list of restricted domains in the preference extensions.webextensions.restrictedDomains. This will prevent a malicious extension from being able to steal sensitive information from it, see bug 1415644.

Databases

 All SQL queries must be parameterized, not concatenated
 Applications must use accounts with limited GRANTS when connecting to databases

In particular, applications must not use admin or owner accounts, to decrease the impact of a sql injection vulnerability.



Common issues

 User data must be escaped for the right context prior to reflecting it

When inserting user generated html into an html context:

Python applications should use Bleach
Javascript applications should use DOMPurify




 Apply sensible limits to user inputs, see input validation

POST body size should be small (<500kB) unless explicitly needed


 When allowing users to upload or generate content, make sure to host that content on a separate domain (eg. firefoxusercontent.com, etc.). This will prevent malicious content from having access to storage and cookies from the origin.

Also use this technique to host rich content you can't protect with a CSP, such as metrics reports, wiki pages, etc.


 When managing permissions, make sure access controls are enforced server-side
 If an authenticated user accesses protected resource, make sure the pages with those resource arent cached and served up to unauthenticated users (like via a CDN).
 If handling cryptographic keys, must have a mechanism to handle quarterly key rotations

Keys used to sign sessions don't need a rotation mechanism if destroying all sessions is acceptable in case of emergency.


 Do not proxy requests from users without strong limitations and filtering (see Pocket UserData vulnerability). Don't proxy requests to link local, loopback, or private networks or DNS that resolves to addresses in those ranges (i.e. 169.254.0.0/16, 127.0.0.0/8, 10.0.0.0/8, 100.64.0.0/10, 172.16.0.0/12, 192.168.0.0/16, 198.18.0.0/15).
 Do not use target="_blank" in external links unless you also use rel="noopener noreferrer" (to prevent Reverse Tabnabbing)

