Should discussion about Node.js core issues occur more on H1 than in nodejs-private?


I'm moving this discussion from nodejs-private/security#215. I know that link and some others here won't be visible to many people, sorry, but this is in part a discussion of how to enable appropriate visibility to sec discussions after-the-fact. I can't see all the links I include here, either (like the H1 link).
Right now initial reports from the public are in H1 and initial reports by the node core team (happens pretty often that @mcollina for example sees a problem with a node API, and opens an issue and fix for it) are directly reported to nodejs-private/security. For H1, the report contents are copied into a nodejs-private/security.
After that, AFAICT, all discussion is in nodejs-private/security (or nodejs-private/node when its about the PR that fixes the issue).
This could be seen as convenient for us, since we spend so much time in github, but:

it means the conversation can never be made public, post release
it leads to links in our public record that can't be followed by most people

On the other hand, an issue with using H1 for more of the conversation is that only the initial triage team can see it, this link is only visible to a small handful of people:

https://hackerone.com/bugs?report_id=453513 (from - nodejs-private/security#214 (comment))

Its actually a nice feature, limiting the view to an "as needed" basis, but if more conversation happens there, then the initial triage team would have to explicitly add more people to the bug as they thought appropriate.
Also, its not clear to me whether any of the reports are ever made public. I can't find any on https://hackerone.com/nodejs, and I don't have enough permission to access H1 and see if there are reports there that have been fixed but not released.
Despite these minor issues, the current process works OK, for us, and I'm a bit hesitant to suggest changing it if it makes the process harder to deal with for the people fixing issues.
That said, my ideal process would result in as much conversation as possible becoming available for public review after the release, to keep our process as open and transparent as possible, but not reveal details of unfixed bugs.
To do that, we'd need:

more conversation on H1, with more (relevant) people added to the discussion - perhaps everyone who can view nodejs-private/security should be explicitly added to H1?
a private nodejs-private/node-XXXX (where XXXX is a H1 issue ID, if such exists) spun up per issue, where the fix (or fixes, often there are multiple PRs when the fix needs backporting to older release lines) can be PRed and discussed.

Post-release, I'd then make the H1 conversation public, and I'd link to the H1 conversation in the node.js security release announcement. Note that when posting in H1, its possible to make comments that can be viewed by the reporter of the issue, but sensitive not-to-be-public comments are also possible. I assume (not actually certain), that even after publicization, those internal comments would not be viewable.
I'd also make the nodejs-private/node-XXXX repo public, perhaps the repo could actually be moved to a public org? This would allow the PR conversation to be public after the fact.
If this is unreasonable because of its goals, or the burden on @nodejs/security , then at the least we should make sure that H1 reports from external users have their state updated when fixes for the issues are released (maybe we do this already, as I said, I can't tell).
Any other thoughts? I think a number of people watching the security-wg repo are consumers of node.js sec releases, but don't have visibility, even after the fact, to how they are made.
