[Security] Bump lodash-es from 4.17.4 to 4.17.11 in /docs


Bumps lodash-es from 4.17.4 to 4.17.11. This update includes security fixes.

Vulnerabilities fixed
Sourced from The Sonatype OSS Index.

[CVE-2018-3721] lodash node module before 4.17.5 suffers from a Modification of Assumed-Immutabl...
lodash node module before 4.17.5 suffers from a Modification of Assumed-Immutable Data (MAID) vulnerability via defaultsDeep, merge, and mergeWith functions, which allows a malicious user to modify the prototype of "Object" via proto, causing the addition or modification of an existing property that will exist on all objects.
Affected versions: <4.17.5



Commits

0843bd4 Bump to v4.17.11.
3ac4b26 Rebuild lodash and docs.
eaa9f36 Commit package-lock.json.
552f94a Lint nits.
d8ddc1a Add test for indirectly merging Object properties.
e5f9af5 Remove prototype property check in safeGet().
2de676f Ensure placeholder properties are set for fp.convert() results. [closes #3440]
278c6dd Cleanup _.merge tests for function properties.
79b9d20 Fix inconsistent merging of multiple sources to function property
6e62e1e Cleanup ReDoS test.
Additional commits viewable in compare view




Dependabot will resolve any conflicts with this PR as long as you don't alter it yourself. You can also trigger a rebase manually by commenting @dependabot rebase.

Note: This repo was added to Dependabot recently, so you'll receive a maximum of 5 PRs for your first few update runs. Once an update run creates fewer than 5 PRs we'll remove that limit.
You can always request more updates by clicking Bump now in your Dependabot dashboard.

Dependabot commands and options

You can trigger Dependabot actions by commenting on this PR:

@dependabot rebase will rebase this PR
@dependabot recreate will recreate this PR, overwriting any edits that have been made to it
@dependabot merge will merge this PR after your CI passes on it
@dependabot cancel merge will cancel a previously requested merge
@dependabot reopen will reopen this PR if it is closed
@dependabot ignore this [patch|minor|major] version will close this PR and stop Dependabot creating any more for this minor/major version (unless you reopen the PR or upgrade to it yourself)
@dependabot ignore this dependency will close this PR and stop Dependabot creating any more for this dependency (unless you reopen the PR or upgrade to it yourself)
@dependabot use these labels will set the current labels as the default for future PRs for this repo and language
@dependabot use these reviewers will set the current reviewers as the default for future PRs for this repo and language
@dependabot use these assignees will set the current assignees as the default for future PRs for this repo and language
@dependabot use this milestone will set the current milestone as the default for future PRs for this repo and language
@dependabot badge me will comment on this PR with code to add a "Dependabot enabled" badge to your readme

Additionally, you can set the following in your Dependabot dashboard:

Update frequency (including time of day and day of week)
Automerge options (never/patch/minor, and dev/runtime dependencies)
Pull request limits (per update run and/or open at any time)
Out-of-range updates (receive only lockfile updates, if desired)
Security updates (receive only security updates, if desired)

Finally, you can contact us by mentioning @dependabot.

