uncompleted documentation cookbook/security/entity_provider.html


This tutorial needs more love. Here is a list of few things what i found confusing or incorrect:

 1. discrepancy in table names. table "acme_users" declared in user class, but table "user" referenced in select query select * from user;
 2. missing create table users description. (this can be guessed by putting together information from annotations from user class and provided output of select query, but why so complicated?)
 3. missing reference on how to generate passwords with salt (provided link gives vague general idea but does not give answer on how to create password what would be usable in presented example)
 4. some random, unexplained and possibly unrelated code: #2753
 5. you can still authenticate with maxime - this is confusing, as it is the first time that  some maxime is mentioned. missing password for maxime and missing reference to when this authentification should be tried for the first time. also this would not work because user class is referencing UserRepository in annotation, but UserRepository was not yet defined. (it will be later in the tutorial)
 6. missing create table acme_groups declaration.
 7. Group should be renamed to Role to avoid unnecessary confusion, and it should be declared as class Role implements RoleInterface
 7. tutorial should mention how to generate missing setters/getters by php app/console doctrine:generate:entities Acme/UserBundle (this does it for both User and Group as per http://symfony.com/doc/current/book/doctrine.html#generating-getters-and-setters )
 8. missing at least 1 working example of user and password for testing (f.e.: u: 'admin', p: 'password', p-hash: 'd033e22ae348aeb5660fc2140aec35850c4da997', salt: '')
 9. missing at least 1 working example of role/group and user assignment to this role/group.
 10. missing explanation how is the user mapped to the role/group. this time not even select * from groups is provided

Question:
how should the user role be saved in the groups table?
this is my users table



id
username
salt
password
email
is_active




1
admin

d033e22ae348aeb5660fc2140aec35850c4da997
admin@admin.com
1



and this is my current groups table:



id
name
role




1
admin
ROLE_ADMIN



but when i login as admin/admin (yes admin is the correct password) the user role on return is empty.
Answer
ok i've noticed that after running table doctrine:generate:entities there is one more table created what mapps user to the role.
